Mapper Creation Course (#155)
mitre/saf-training: src/courses/mappers/03.md

Reviewer: Addressed

Author: Specifically in `Knowledge check` section.

1) <i>**Profiles**</i>:
```
profiles: [
  0: {
    name             // Name of profile, usually the original security service tool; should be unique
    version          // Version of security service tool
    sha256           // Checksum of the profile; NOTE: AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED BY HDF CONVERTERS, DO NOT POPULATE
    title            // Title of security service scan; should be human readable
    maintainer       // Maintainer
    summary          // Summary of security service export (e.g., the STIG header)
    license          // Copyright license
    copyright        // Copyright holder
    copyright_email  // Copyright holder's email
    supports         // Supported platform targets
    attributes       // Inputs/attributes used in scan
    groups           // Set of descriptions for the control groups (e.g., control IDs)
    controls         // Controls substructure (see below)
    status           // Status of profile (typically 'loaded')
  }
  ... // More items may exist if the security service produces multiple profiles per export
]

> ```

Reviewer 2: It might be nice to include syntax highlighting for all the code blocks

Author: Good call

---
order: 3
next: 04.md
title: Where Is OHDF Used?
author: Charles Hu
---

## Where Is OHDF Used?

> OHDF is part of the SAF normalization process (see below) and is officially implemented and used in a plethora of tools and libraries including InspecJS, OHDF Converters, the SAF CLI, and Heimdall2.

Reviewer: Note to self: refer back to the SAF capabilities section, think about it from the perspective of someone who is *only* taking the mapper course. Give those brief 2-sentence summaries abt how OHDF supports each of these pillars.

> OHDF is part of the SAF normalization process (see below) and is officially implemented and used in a plethora of tools and libraries including InspecJS, OHDF Converters, the SAF CLI, and Heimdall2.

Reviewer: Addressed

![](./img/saf_security_validation_lifecycle.png)

## What Is InspecJS?

> [InspecJS](https://github.com/mitre/heimdall2/tree/master/libs/inspecjs) is a library that provides schema definitions, classes, and utilities for OHDF file handling. InspecJS plays a pivotal role in the contextualization process where it converts the individual statuses for each finding into an overall status for the control.

Author: Addressed.

## What Is OHDF Converters?

> [OHDF Converters](https://github.com/mitre/heimdall2/tree/master/libs/hdf-converters) is a custom data normalization library which leverages OHDF mappers for transforming various security data formats to and from OHDF. It is currently integrated into [Heimdall2](https://github.com/mitre/heimdall2) and the [SAF CLI](https://github.com/mitre/saf), which collectively are part of the [Security Automation Framework (SAF)](https://saf.mitre.org/#/), a set of tools and processes which aim to standardize and ease security compliance testing and verification within an automated build pipeline.

Author: Addressed.

> [OHDF Converters](https://github.com/mitre/heimdall2/tree/master/libs/hdf-converters) is a custom data normalization library which leverages OHDF mappers for transforming various security data formats to and from OHDF. It is currently integrated into [Heimdall2](https://github.com/mitre/heimdall2) and the [SAF CLI](https://github.com/mitre/saf), which collectively are part of the [Security Automation Framework (SAF)](https://saf.mitre.org/#/), a set of tools and processes which aim to standardize and ease security compliance testing and verification within an automated build pipeline.

Author: Addressed.

## What Is the SAF CLI?

> The [SAF CLI](https://github.com/mitre/saf) is a tool that provides various automation support functions for CI/CD. One of its main functions is the `saf convert` command, which allows for the conversion of data between OHDF and several supported security tool data formats.

Author: Addressed.

> ## What Is Heimdall2?

Author: Addressed.

---
order: 3
next: 04.md
title: Where Is OHDF Used?
author: Charles Hu
---

## Where Is OHDF Used?

OHDF is a cornerstone of the Security Automation Framework and is officially implemented and used in a plethora of tools and libraries including InspecJS, OHDF Converters, the SAF CLI, and Heimdall.

## What Is the Security Automation Framework?

> The Security Automation Framework (SAF) is a DevSecOps framework which provides a suite of tools for assessing, applying, and managing the security compliance of computer systems. SAF has five core capabilities, of which OHDF is involved in varying degrees:

Author: Addressed.

## What Is OHDF Converters?

[OHDF Converters](https://github.com/mitre/heimdall2/tree/master/libs/hdf-converters) is a custom data normalization library which hosts and leverages OHDF mappers for transforming various security data formats to and from OHDF. It is currently integrated in tools such as [Heimdall](https://github.com/mitre/heimdall2) and the [SAF CLI](https://github.com/mitre/saf), which collectively are part of the [Security Automation Framework (SAF)](https://saf.mitre.org/#/), a set of tools and processes which aim to standardize and ease security compliance testing and verification for systems such as automated build pipelines.

## What Is the SAF CLI?

The Security Automation Framework Command Line Interface (SAF CLI) brings together applications, techniques, libraries, and tools developed by MITRE and the security community to streamline security automation for systems and DevOps pipelines.

> An example of a typical use case of the SAF CLI is for security automation support for CI/CD. This process utilizes the `saf convert` command, which allows for the conversion of data between OHDF and several supported security tool data formats. The SAF CLI is set up to automatically ingest security reports generated from the build pipeline and can forward the newly generated OHDF files to a visualizer such as Heimdall which allows a security assessor to review the state of the current software build.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An example use case of the SAF CLI is for automating certain security processes in a CI/CD pipeline. One process would be normalizing security data into OHDF using the `saf convert` command.  One can set up the SAF CLI to automatically ingest security reports generated from the build pipeline, and then forward the newly generated OHDF files to a visualization tool such as Heimdall that allows a security assessor to review the state of the current software build.
```

> ![SAF CLI Utility Overview](./img/saf_cli_features.png)

Author: Addressed.

---
order: 3
next: 04.md
title: Where Is OHDF Used?
author: Charles Hu
---

## Where Is OHDF Used?

OHDF is a cornerstone of the Security Automation Framework and is officially implemented and used in a plethora of tools and libraries including InspecJS, OHDF Converters, the SAF CLI, and Heimdall.

## What Is the Security Automation Framework?

> The Security Automation Framework (SAF) is a suite of open-source security automation tools that facilitate the development, collection, and standardization of content for use by government and industry organizations to​:

Author: Isn't that the SAF CLI description?

- **Harden**: OHDF is not typically used in this capability.

- **Validate**: InSpec's results format is a subset of the OHDF, meaning that InSpec is natively supported. Moreover, it's easy to write InSpec such that all the guidance information is passed through into both the OHDF profile and OHDF results formats.

- **Normalize**: With the use of OHDF Converters, we are able to map many different security results formats to our standard format, OHDF. These converters can either be accessed directly or via the SAF CLI.

- **Visualize**: OHDF is ingested by a variety of tools and transformed in many different ways. For example, a results file can be turned into a threshold file for pipeline use, turned into a POAM for ingestion by eMASS, or ingested by Heimdall directly for display purposes.

![SAF has five core capabilities, which we have developed/identified tooling and scripts to address.](./img/saf_security_validation_lifecycle.png)

You can read more about SAF [here](../user/03.md).

## What Is InspecJS?

> [InspecJS](https://github.com/mitre/heimdall2/tree/master/libs/inspecjs) is a library that provides schema definitions, classes, and utilities for OHDF file handling. InspecJS plays a pivotal role in the contextualization process where it performs tasks such as converting the individual statuses for each finding into an overall status for the control.

Author: Addressed.

## What Is OHDF Converters?

> [OHDF Converters](https://github.com/mitre/heimdall2/tree/master/libs/hdf-converters) is a custom data normalization library which hosts and leverages OHDF mappers for transforming various security data formats to and from OHDF. It is currently integrated in tools such as [Heimdall](https://github.com/mitre/heimdall2) and the [SAF CLI](https://github.com/mitre/saf), which collectively are part of the [Security Automation Framework (SAF)](https://saf.mitre.org/#/), a set of tools and processes which aim to standardize and ease security compliance testing and verification for systems such as automated build pipelines.

Reviewer 4: change: ease security **compliance** testing and verification for systems such as automated build pipelines
to: ease **security testing** and verification for systems such as automated build pipelines

Author: Addressed.

## Where Is OHDF Used?

OHDF is a cornerstone of the Security Automation Framework and is officially implemented and used in a plethora of tools and libraries including InspecJS, OHDF Converters, the SAF CLI, and Heimdall.

## What Is the Security Automation Framework?

The Security Automation Framework (SAF) is a DevSecOps framework which provides a suite of tools for assessing, applying, and managing the security compliance of computer systems. SAF has five core capabilities, of which OHDF is involved in varying degrees:

> - **Plan**: OHDF is defined such that it includes all information described in the guidance, as well as relavant meta data. Thus, the information provided by the guidance are incorporated with the security tool results.

Reviewer 3: "The OHDF schema is defined such that it can include all information..."

relevant spelled wrong, metadata should be one word, information is a singular noun so use 'is' not 'are'

Author: Addressed.

> - **Harden**: OHDF is not typically used in this capability.

Reviewer 3: I like this phrasing.

Author: :)

## Where Is OHDF Used?

The SAF has five core capabilities, which you can read more about [here](../user/03.md). Here is how OHDF relates to these five pillars:

- **Plan**: The OHDF spec is written such that it includes all the information described in the guidance, as well as all the relavant metadata. Thus, the information is carried alongside the results. 

> - **Harden**: The OHDF spec is not really relevant in this case. 

Author: Phrasing was changed in later commit. Should an explanation still be included?

> - **Harden**: The OHDF spec is not really relevant in this case. 

Reviewer 3: No.

- **Validate**: InSpec's results format is a subset of the OHDF spec. This means that InSpec itself is natively supported! Moreover, it's easy to write InSpec such that all the guidance information is passed through into both the OHDF profile and OHDF results formats. 

> - **Normalize**: Normalization is the primary use of OHDF. With the use of OHDF Converters, we are able to map many different security results formats to a standard format (OHDF). These converters can either be implemented directly, or accessed via the SAF CLI. 

Reviewer 3: I mean considering how much inspec we write and utilize, I would say that 'validation' is also a primary usage of OHDF.  Also Heimdall is our primary visualization thing, and it's not gonna work without HDF.  Let's rephrase this section a bit to get rid of the 'primary' stuff.

Author: Addressed.
